---
title: Monitoring automations
description: Trigger attended or unattended automations or view process jobs, installed plugins, automation logs, maintenance requests, and alerts.
locale: en-US
release: australia
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 2
breadcrumb: [RPA Hub, Workflow Data Fabric]
---

# Monitoring automations

Trigger attended or unattended automations or view process jobs, installed plugins, automation logs, maintenance requests, and alerts.

-   **[Start an unattended bot process in RPA Hub](../task/start-bot-process.md)**  
Start an unattended bot process in the specified robot machine to execute the automation by the selected robot.
-   **[Stop an unattended bot process in RPA Hub](../task/stop-bot-process.md)**  
Stop the unattended bot process to abort the automation by the selected robot.If robot pool is enabled for a particular bot process, then the execution is stopped for all the robots of the robot pool.
-   **[Launch in Studio from RPA Hub](../task/launch-studio.md)**  
Review, edit, and debug automations by opening the associated package version of the bot process in the RPA Desktop Design Studio.
-   **[Using the Overview tab to view the bot processes in RPA Hub](overview-botprocess-unattended.md)**  
By using the **Overview** tab in RPA Hub, you can quickly view the bot process details in one place.
-   **[View a package version in RPA Hub](../task/view-package-version.md)**  
View a package version in RPA Hub so that it can be opened from the RPA Desktop Design Studio to build, debug, or modify the automation.
-   **[View the process jobs of a bot process in RPA Hub](../task/view-process-jobs-botprocess.md#)**  
View a list of execution logs of a bot process in RPA Hub.
-   **[View process jobs for all bot processes in RPA Hub](../task/view-process-jobs.md)**  
View a list of execution logs for all bot processes.
-   **[View alerts in RPA Hub](../task/view-alerts-rpa.md)**  
View notifications that are generated by the alert rules. For example, you can view alerts that pertain to robots, schedules, process jobs, and so on.
-   **[View installed RPA Hub plugins](../task/view-installed-rpa-plugins.md#)**  
View a list of available RPA Hub plugins, the plugin versions, and dependency packs to verify the availability of a specific version that you want to install and use on the RPA Desktop Design Studio.
-   **[View maintenance requests in RPA Hub](../task/view-mr-rpa.md#)**  
After a scheduled maintenance event card is accepted or rejected on the robot calendar, a maintenance request is created for tracking.
-   **[View automation logs in RPA Hub](../task/view-automation-logs-rpa.md#)**  
Automation logs are series of succession stages or a series of checkpoints that occur during the execution of a bot process. It enables monitoring and auditing the automation process. These logs are generated from the robot for unattended and attended bot processes.

**Parent Topic:**[Workflow Data Fabric](../../../build/create-integrations-apps/concept/create-integrations-applications.md)

