---
title: Google Cloud Platform \(GCP\) Cloud discovery using Patterns
description: Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns uses patterns to discover components of the Google Cloud Platform \(GCP\) deployment during horizontal discovery. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns
classification: discovery-and-service-mapping-patterns
topic_type: reference
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 7
keywords: [GCP discovery, GCP patterns, Google Cloud Platform discovery, Google Cloud Platform patterns]
breadcrumb: [Available cloud discovery patterns, Discovery patterns used by ITOM Visibility, ITOM Visibility, IT Operations Management]
---

# Google Cloud Platform \(GCP\) Cloud discovery using Patterns

Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns uses patterns to discover components of the Google Cloud Platform \(GCP\) deployment during horizontal discovery. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.

## Request apps on the Store

Visit the [ServiceNow Store](https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/home) to view all the available apps, and for information about submitting requests to the store. For cumulative release notes information for all released apps, see the [ServiceNow Store version history release notes](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/store-release-notes/page/release-notes/store/sn-store-release-notes.html).

## Prerequisites

-   **Verify that the applications are up to date.**
    -   Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns starting version 1.8.0 \(September 2023\)
    -   CMDB CI Class Models starting version 1.49.0 \(September 2023\)
    -   Visibility Content starting version 6.13.0 \(September 2023\)
-   **Verify the MID Server requirements**
    -   Use a dedicated MID Server for cloud discovery. The MID Server must have 16 Cores, 8 GB with 4 GB Java Virtual Machine \(JVM\) memory allocation. For information on verifying MID Server specifications, see KB article [KB2156327](https://support.servicenow.com/kb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB2156327).
    -   Deploy and connect the dedicated MID Server with internet access.
    -   For more information on the MID Server configurations, see [Install and configure MID Servers to access cloud environments](../../it-operations-management/task/mid-server-configuration-cloud.md).
-   **Verify Google Cloud BigQuery and Google Cloud Bigtable requirements**

    To discover Google Cloud BigQuery and Google Cloud Bigtable, navigate to **All** &gt; **Discovery** &gt; **MID Server** &gt; **Properties** and ensure that the **sn\_itom\_pattern.google\_dbservice\_table\_collection** property is set to **True**.

-   **Verify user role settings**

    Set the user permission for the Google Cloud Platform member to **Viewer**:

    1.  In the Google Cloud Platform console, navigate to **IAM**.
    2.  Select the relevant member from the list and click the **Edit** icon.
    3.  In the Edit permissions window, select `Viewer` from the **Role** list.
    4.  Click **Save**.
-   **Configure Google API Credentials**

    For more information, see [Configure the Google API credentials for Cloud Discovery](../../discovery/task/itom-create-google-api-credentials.md).

-   **Create a Google Cloud Platform service account**

    For more information, see [Create GCP service accounts](../../it-operations-management/task/create-gcp-service-accounts.md).

-   **Enable collecting cloud logging events**

    The Google Cloud Platform patterns can collect cloud logging events generated by the native Google Cloud APIs. [Configure the Google Cloud Logging service to auto-update the CMDB](../../it-operations-management/task/gcp-stackdriver-service.md).

-   **Activate the cloud-related CI relationships**

    To include discovered components into service instances, enable CI relationships used in tag-based discovery by Service Mapping. These CI relationships are available from the 1.0.68 release on the ServiceNow Store. For operational steps, see [Tag-based discovery configuration](../concept/tag_discovery_configuration.md).

-   **Verify that a Discovery schedule is configured**

    For more information, see [Create a GCP Discovery schedule in Discovery Admin Workspace](../../discovery/task/create-gcp-schedule-DAW.md).

-   **\(Optional\) Populate Service Account and Logical Datacenter fields in cloud CIs**

    Starting with Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns version 1.30.2, you can improve query performance by populating Service Account and Logical Datacenter fields directly in cloud CIs. For more information, see [Improved query performance with direct field population in CI tables](../concept/query-service-account-ldc-fields.md).


## Verify the REST API Permissions

Download the [Cloud Discovery patterns spreadsheet](https://downloads.docs.servicenow.com/resource/enus/api/servicenow-discovery-patterns-api-details.xlsx) so you can grant user permissions required for running the Discovery patterns. In addition to permissions, the spreadsheet also includes useful information such as pattern names, types, CI Classes, and links to vendor documentation. New patterns are available quarterly, so check periodically to be sure you have the latest version of the spreadsheet.

-   **[GCP BigQuery pattern-based discovery](gcp-bigquery-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP BigQuery datasets and tables on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Bigtable pattern-based discovery](gcp-bigtable-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Bigtable instances on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Cloud Firestore pattern-based discovery](gcp-firestore-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Cloud Firestore database instances on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Cloud SQL pattern-based discovery](gcp-cloud-sql-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Cloud SQL instances and their databases on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Disk Types pattern-based discovery](gcp-disk-types-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Disk Types on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Events pattern-based discovery](gcp-events-pattern.md)**  
Discovery uses event patterns to update GCP component data in near real-time. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP External IP Addresses pattern-based discovery](gcp-external-ip-addresses-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP external IP addresses on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Firebase Realtime Database pattern-based discovery](gcp-firebase-realtime-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Firebase Realtime Database instances on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Load Balancer pattern-based discovery](gcp-load-balancer-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Load Balancers on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Networking pattern-based discovery](gcp-networking-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP networking resources on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Spanner pattern-based discovery](gcp-spanner-db-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Spanner instances and databases on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP SSH Keys pattern-based discovery](gcp-ssh-keys-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP SSH keys stored in project metadata on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP Storage pattern-based discovery](gcp-storage-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP persistent disks and snapshots on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
-   **[GCP virtual server pattern-based discovery](gcp-virtual-server-pattern.md)**  
Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns finds GCP Virtual Machine \(VM\) instances and related resources on your cloud environment. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.

**Parent Topic:**[Available cloud discovery patterns](../concept/available-patterns-cloud.md)

**Related topics**  


[Kubernetes discovery using patterns](../concept/kubernetes-discovery.md)

[GCP Certificate Manager discovery](gcp-certificate-discovery-pattern.md)

