---
title: Change the order of survey questions
description: You can easily reorder survey questions at the category level or the question level.
locale: en-US
release: australia
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 1
breadcrumb: [Survey questions, Survey administration, Use surveys, Surveys, Assessments and Surveys, Exploring Service Administration, Service Administration, Manage service capabilities, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Change the order of survey questions

You can easily reorder survey questions at the category level or the question level.

## Before you begin

Role required: admin or survey\_admin

## About this task

You can change the order in which the questions in one category appear relative to those in other categories for the same survey definition. If you add a new question manually after you create other questions, you may want to change the order of questions.

When you create questions using the survey creator, the system sets the **Order** field for the first question to **101**, the second to **102**, and so on. After you create a new question outside of the survey creator, the **Order** is set to **100** by default, which means it appears before all questions generated by the survey creator.

## Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Survey** &gt; **View Surveys** and open the appropriate survey definition.

2.  In the **Metric Categories** related list, edit the values in the **Order** column.

3.  To change the order of questions within a category, complete the following steps.

    1.  Open the **Assessment Metrics** related list.

    2.  Edit the values in the **Order** column.

4.  Click **Update**.


**Parent Topic:**[Survey questions](../concept/c_SurveyQuestion.md)

**Related topics**  


[Create or modify survey questions](t_CreateOrModifySurveyQuestions.md)

[Survey question data types](../reference/r_SurveyQuestionDataTypes.md)

[Survey question template](../concept/c_SurveyQuestionTemplate.md)

[Add a metric category and metric in the question bank for surveys](add-questionbank-for-survey.md)

[Create or modify answer options](t_CreateOrModifyAnswerOptions.md)

