---
title: Create a stock rule
description: Create a stock rule to control what happens when the inventory of a particular asset in a particular stockroom reaches a specified threshold.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Hardware Asset Management
classification: hardware-asset-management
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 2
breadcrumb: [Manage stockrooms, Using Hardware Asset Management, Hardware Asset Management, IT Asset Management]
---

# Create a stock rule

Create a stock rule to control what happens when the inventory of a particular asset in a particular stockroom reaches a specified threshold.

## Before you begin

Role required: inventory\_admin

## Procedure

1.  Create a stock rule.

<table id="choicetable_ggf_c2c_tfc"><thead><tr><th align="left" id="d193870e57">

Interface

</th><th align="left" id="d193870e60">

Action

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td id="d193870e66">

**Core UI**

</td><td>

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Inventory** &gt; **Stock** &gt; **Stock Rules**.
2.  Select **New**.


</td></tr><tr><td id="d193870e102">

**Hardware Asset Workspace**

</td><td>

1.  Navigate to **Asset operations** &gt; **** &gt; **Inventory**.
2.  From the Inventory list, select **Stock rules**.
3.  Select **New**.


</td></tr></tbody>
</table>2.  On the form, fill in the fields.

<table id="table_w1t_lkt_lq"><thead><tr><th>

Field

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

Model

</td><td>

Product model to which the rule applies.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Threshold

</td><td>

Quantity that the stock must reach to trigger restocking. For example, enter a threshold of 10 for a laptop computer that should be restocked when inventory drops below 10 in the specified stockroom.**Note:** If a stock rule is created for a hardware or software model reaches the threshold limit, a notification is sent to the stockroom manager and a stock order request is automatically created.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Restocking option

</td><td>

Location where additional supplies should come from. If Procurement isn’t active, then restocking option is **Stockroom** only. Otherwise, select one of the following:

 -   **Stockroom**: Creates a transfer order to obtain the asset from another stockroom.
-   **Vendor**: Sends an email to the stockroom manager to order from a vendor. In addition to the email notification, a purchase order and purchase order line item are created.
**Important:** Once a transfer order, purchase order, or purchase order line item is created, it's important to act on it promptly. Any email notifications or reminders won't be sent for these actions.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Active

</td><td>

Option for enabling the stock rule for restocking automatically.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Stockroom

</td><td>

Current physical location of the asset.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Order size

</td><td>

Minimum order quantity for stockroom transfers or vendor purchases. ServiceNow calculates the smallest multiple of the order size needed to restock the item above the threshold. For example, there are 3 laptops in stock with a threshold of 10 and the **Stockroom** option selected. If the order size is set to 4, the system creates a transfer order for 8 laptops to exceed the threshold and satisfy the rule \(3 in stock + 8 ordered = 11\). When restocking from a vendor, ServiceNow sends an email to the stockroom manager showing the total number of items to order, as multiples of the order size.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>3.  Select **Submit** or **Save**.


## Result

-   The stock rule that you created appears in the **Stock rules** tab.
-   If the restocking option was set to **Vendor**, the **Stock orders** tab will be displayed. All the stock orders that are created using this stock rule are listed under the Stock orders tab.
-   If the restocking option was set to **Stockroom**, the **Transfer orders** tab will be displayed. All the transfers orders created using this stock rule are listed under the **Transfer orders** tab.

    **Note:** For stock orders created through the restocking by a vendor, the stock order tab shows all stock orders generated by that stock rule. But for transfer orders, the tab only displays transfer orders after the upgrade.


**Parent Topic:**[Manage stockrooms](../../hardware-asset-management/concept/manage-your-stockrooms.md)

**Related topics**  


[Stock rules](../concept/c_StockRules.md)

