---
title: Self-Service Analytics
description: The Self-Service Analytics framework enables you to gather information about user activities and deflection outcomes related to those activities.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Knowledge Management
classification: knowledge-management
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 1
breadcrumb: [Exploring Knowledge Management, Knowledge Management, Manage content capabilities, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Self-Service Analytics

The Self-Service Analytics framework enables you to gather information about user activities and deflection outcomes related to those activities.

Display the effectiveness of self-service channels by using reports and dashboards based on the data generated by the Self-Service Analytics framework. This Self-Service Analytics data is used by the Self-Service Analytics dashboard for customer service. You can also use the Self-Service Analytics framework in dashboards of other applications that use the Subscriptions and Activity Feed Framework. For more information, see [Self-Service Analytics dashboard for customer service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/customer-service-management/analytics-and-reporting-solutions-for-customer-service/ssa-cs-dashboard.md).

Analyzing self-service deflection metrics has the following benefits:

-   Measure self-service effectiveness through self-service KPIs.
-   Quantify successful self-service engagements to take corrective actions.
-   Define custom self-service KPIs tailored to your organization.

## Activation information

The Self-Service Analytics framework requires the Self-Service Analytics Core plugin \(com.snc.self\_service\_analytics\_core\). For more information, see [Activate Self-Service Analytics](../task/activate-ssa-cs.md).

**Note:** The data for the Communities and Virtual Agent channels are generated when the Communities plugin \(com.sn\_communities\) and Glide Virtual Agent plugin \(com.glide.cs.chatbot\) are activated respectively.

-   **[Self-Service Analytics concepts](ssa-concepts.md)**  
You can quantify your self-service effectiveness by measuring case deflections.

**Parent Topic:**[Knowledge Management](knowledge-management.md)

**Related topics**  


[Configure Self-Service Analytics](../task/config-ssa.md)

[Self-Service Analytics concepts](ssa-concepts.md)

[Platform Analytics Solutions for Self-Service Analytics for Customer Service](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/customer-service-management/analytics-and-reporting-solutions-for-customer-service/ssa-cs-content-pack.md)

