---
title: Remote Process Sync Outbound Flow Template - Basic
description: A sample Remote Process Sync subflow to send outgoing payloads to a remote instance. This subflow creates a correlation between a remote record and a local incident record. Copy this subflow and edit the input for the local record to the table of your choice.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Integration Hub Remote Process Sync
classification: integration-hub-remote-process-sync
topic_type: reference
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 2
breadcrumb: [Sample subflows, Integration Hub Remote Process Sync, Workflow Data Fabric]
---

# Remote Process Sync Outbound Flow Template - Basic

A sample Remote Process Sync subflow to send outgoing payloads to a remote instance. This subflow creates a correlation between a remote record and a local incident record. Copy this subflow and edit the input for the local record to the table of your choice.

## Roles and availability

Available as a Global Remote Process Sync subflow.

-   **Subscription requirements**

    This action requires an Integration Hub subscription. For more information, see [Request Integration Hub](../../flow-designer/concept/request-ih-overview.md) and [Legal schedules - IntegrationHub overview](https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow-assets/public/en-us/doc-type/legal/snc-addendum-integrationhub.pdf).

-   **Role requirements**

    This action requires roles granted by delegated development or assigned to the user. For more information, see [User access to Workflow Studio flows](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/build-workflows/workflow-studio/user-access-flow-designer.md).


## Inputs

Provide a value for each input that your action needs. To add dynamic values, you can also drag pills from the Data panel or select them from the pill picker.

-   **Wait for Completion**

    Data type: **True/False**

    Option to require the parent flow to wait for the subflow to complete. If enabled, the parent flow cannot proceed to the next action until the subflow completes.

-   **Local Record**

    Data type: **Record**

    Reference to a record on the local instance you are synchronizing with another instance. The data pill contains all the field values for the specified record. For example, a case record on the local instance.

-   **Remote System**

    Data type: **Record**

    Reference to the Process Sync Remote System record for the remote instance you are synchronizing processes with. This record identifies the instance that receives outbound synchronization changes or that sent inbound synchronization changes.

-   **CRUD Operation**

    Data type: **Choice**

    Database operation that triggered the process event. The available options are Create, Update, or Delete.

-   **Trigger/Capture Definition**

    Data type: **Record**

    Reference to the Capture Definition record that the system uses to create an outbound payload. The data pill contains all the field values for the specified record. For example, a capture definition for case records.

-   **Process Event**

    Data type: **String**

    Name of the process event to run. The name is the same on each instance that participates in process synchronization. For example, case-to-incident.

-   **Payload**

    Data type: **Object**

    Object containing changes generated by a capture definition. For example, a list of field changes for a case record on the local instance. The system transforms this object to a JSON string to send it to a remote instance.


## Outputs

These outputs appear in the Data panel. You can use them as inputs elsewhere in your flow.

-   **Status**

    Data type: **Choice**

    Synchronization state of records. The available options are Active or Inactive. Active records are being synchronized. Inactive records are not synchronized.

-   **Error Message**

    Data type: **String**

    Error returned by the action.


