---
title: Send Captured Payload to Remote System
description: Generate a captured payload, and send it to a remote system. This action should follow a Look Up Correlation action. Remote Process Sync flows use the returned correlation to check if a new correlation should be created.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Integration Hub Remote Process Sync
classification: integration-hub-remote-process-sync
topic_type: reference
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 2
breadcrumb: [Actions, Integration Hub Remote Process Sync, Workflow Data Fabric]
---

# Send Captured Payload to Remote System

Generate a captured payload, and send it to a remote system. This action should follow a Look Up Correlation action. Remote Process Sync flows use the returned correlation to check if a new correlation should be created.

## Roles and availability

Available as a ServiceNow Core Remote Process Sync action.

-   **Subscription requirements**

    This action requires an Integration Hub subscription. For more information, see [Request Integration Hub](../../flow-designer/concept/request-ih-overview.md) and [Legal schedules - IntegrationHub overview](https://www.servicenow.com/content/dam/servicenow-assets/public/en-us/doc-type/legal/snc-addendum-integrationhub.pdf).

-   **Role requirements**

    This action requires roles granted by delegated development or assigned to the user. For more information, see [User access to Workflow Studio flows](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/build-workflows/workflow-studio/user-access-flow-designer.md).


## Inputs

Provide a value for each input that your action needs. To add dynamic values, you can also drag pills from the Data panel or select them from the pill picker.

-   **Remote System**

    Data type: **Record**

    Reference to the Process Sync Remote System record for the remote instance you are synchronizing processes with. This record identifies the instance that receives outbound synchronization changes or that sent inbound synchronization changes.

-   **CRUD Operation**

    Data type: **Choice**

    Database operation that triggered the process event. The available options are Create, Update, or Delete.

-   **Process Event**

    Data type: **String**

    Name of the process event to run. The name is the same on each instance that participates in process synchronization. For example, case-to-incident.

-   **Payload**

    Data type: **Object**

    Object containing changes generated by a capture definition. For example, a list of field changes for a case record on the local instance. The system transforms this object to a JSON string to send it to a remote instance.

-   **Correlation Detail**

    Data type: **Object**

    Object containing correlation information about a synchronized record. The object identifies the local and remote correlation IDs associated with a local record.


## Outputs

These outputs appear in the Data panel. You can use them as inputs elsewhere in your flow.

-   **Status**

    Data type: **String**

    Status code returned by the action.

-   **Error Message**

    Data type: **String**

    Error returned by the action.

-   **Local Correlation ID**

    Data type: **String**

    Globally unique ID of a correlation on the local instance you are synchronizing processes with. This ID uniquely identifies the correlation for inbound transactions.

-   **Remote Correlation ID**

    Data type: **String**

    Globally unique ID of a correlation on a remote instance you are synchronizing processes with. This ID uniquely identifies the correlation for outbound transactions.


