---
title: Configure the standard ticket page
description: Give Service Portal users a consistent way to view their submitted requests. You can configure the standard ticket page for different request types.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Service Portal
classification: service-portal
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-04-22"
reading_time_minutes: 3
breadcrumb: [Standard ticket page, Creating portal pages, Configuring Service Portal, Service Portal, Configure UIs and portals, Configure user experiences]
---

# Configure the standard ticket page

Give Service Portal users a consistent way to view their submitted requests. You can configure the standard ticket page for different request types.

## Before you begin

Role required: admin or sp\_admin

## About this task

You can add a standard ticket configuration only for a task-extended table.

Widgets containing **Date/Time** values display the date and time only in the **Time Ago** \(for example, 11 minutes ago\) format, and user preferences for such widgets aren’t considered. For example, the **Created date** and the **Updated date** values are displayed in the **Time Ago** format.

## Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Standard Ticket** &gt; **Standard Ticket Configuration**.

2.  Select **New**.

3.  On the form, fill in the fields.

<table id="table_nsc_wyx_2mb"><thead><tr><th>

Field

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

Table

</td><td>

Task-extended table for which you want to configure the standard ticket page.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Active

</td><td>

Whether the ticket configuration is active.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Application

</td><td>

Application associated with the ticket configuration.

</td></tr><tr><td>

State field

</td><td>

Any field of the task-extended table. By default, this field maps to the **State** field of the task-extended table. You have to configure the form to add this field.**Note:** You cannot add fields for any of the following information:

-   Number
-   Short description
-   Created date
-   Updated date
-   Watch list
-   Any user input such as comments and work notes


</td></tr><tr><td class="sub-head" colspan="2">

Info Region

</td></tr><tr><td>

Show 'Description'

</td><td>

Scenario when the request description should be displayed. Possible options are:-   None
-   Always
-   When no variables
 **Note:** When displayed, you can expand and collapse the description.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Description field

</td><td>

Field that the sp\_admin can select from the fields of the ticket record \(for example, sc\_req\_item, incident\), which is displayed as description on the Standard Ticket Page.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Advanced

</td><td>

Whether a widget is displayed in the info region.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Info widget

</td><td>

Widget displayed in the info region. This field appears only when the **Advanced** check box is selected.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Info widget parameters

</td><td>

Name value pair for the widget parameters. This field appears only when the **Advanced** check box is selected.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Info fields

</td><td>

Fields displayed in the info region. This field disappears when you select the **Advanced** check box.**Note:**

-   You cannot add fields for any of the following information:
    -   Number
    -   Short description
    -   Created date
    -   Updated date
    -   Watch list
    -   State
    -   Any user input such as comments and work notes
-   A field of the workflow type is not supported for any table. Only for the Requested Item \[sc\_req\_item\] table, the workflow type field is supported, for example, the **Stage** field. This field is displayed at the last irrespective of the field position in the configuration.


</td></tr><tr><td class="sub-head" colspan="2">

Action Region

</td></tr><tr><td>

Action widget

</td><td>

Widget for the actions available in the Action region.**Note:**

If the field is configured, it takes precedence over the standard ticket actions.

</td></tr><tr><td>

Action widget parameters

</td><td>

Name value pair of action widget parameters.

</td></tr><tr><td colspan="2">

Summarization

</td></tr><tr><td>

Summary fields

</td><td>

Standard ticket page fields that are included in the summary generated by Now Assist.

</td></tr></tbody>
</table>4.  Select and hold \(or right-click\) the header menu and select **Save**.

5.  After you make all the required changes, select **Submit**.


-   **[Enable instance options for the Activity tab](enable-instanceop-activity.md)**  
Format the work notes and add @mentions in the Activity tab on a standard ticket page.
-   **[Configure tabs for standard ticket page](configure-tabs-for-standard-ticket-page.md)**  
You can configure the tabs for the standard ticket page.
-   **[Configure actions for standard ticket page](configure-actions-for-standard-ticket-page.md)**  
You can configure specific actions to be directly available on the standard ticket page. Requesters are able to initiate these actions. Scriptable APIs can also trigger these actions.

**Parent Topic:**[Standard ticket page](../concept/standard-ticket-page.md)

**Related topics**  


[Enable instance options for the Activity tab](enable-instanceop-activity.md)

[Configure tabs for standard ticket page](configure-tabs-for-standard-ticket-page.md)

[Configure actions for standard ticket page](configure-actions-for-standard-ticket-page.md)

[Now Assist in Standard Ticket Page](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/intelligent-experiences/now-assist-skills/now-assist-in-standard-ticket-page.md)

