---
title: Discovery for Google Cloud Platform
description: Discovery finds Google Cloud Platform and its components. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Discovery
classification: discovery
topic_type: reference
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 5
keywords: [Patterns, Google, Cloud, Discovery]
breadcrumb: [Discovery for cloud environment, Discovery, ITOM Visibility, IT Operations Management]
---

# Discovery for Google Cloud Platform

Discovery finds Google Cloud Platform and its components. Discovering some of these resources may require updating to the latest version of the Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns application from the ServiceNow Store.

## Request new or enhanced Patterns on the ServiceNow® Store

Visit the [ServiceNow Store](https://store.servicenow.com/sn_appstore_store.do#!/store/application/06a71b1367e4130051c9027e2685ef1e/1.6.0?referer=%2Fstore%2Fsearch%3Flistingtype%3Dallintegrations%25253Bancillary_app%25253Bcertified_apps%25253Bcontent%25253Bindustry_solution%25253Boem%25253Butility%25253Btemplate%26q%3DPatterns&sl=sh) to view all the available updates and for information about submitting requests to the store. For cumulative release notes information for all released apps, see the [ServiceNow Store version history release notes](https://docs.servicenow.com/bundle/store-release-notes/page/release-notes/store/sn-store-release-notes.html).

Data discovered for the Google Cloud Platform components offers visibility for multiple ServiceNow products, including Cloud Provisioning and Governance.

Discovery uses multiple patterns to find GCP components.

You can discover global and regional resources.

|Global|Regional|
|------|--------|
|Global static external IP addresses|Regional static external IP addresses|
|Global Load Balancers \(Global Http Load Balancers\)|Regional Load Balancers \(Regional HTTP Load Balancers, TCP/UDP Load Balancers\)|
|Images|Subnets|
|Snapshots|Regional managed instance groups|
|Instance Templates|Regional persistent disks|
|VPC Network| |
|Firewalls| |

## Requirements for GCP discovery

-   **Verify that the applications are up to date.**
    -   Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns starting version 1.8.0 \(September 2023\)
    -   CMDB CI Class Models starting version 1.49.0 \(September 2023\)
    -   Visibility Content starting version 6.13.0 \(September 2023\)
-   **Verify the MID Server requirements**
    -   Use a dedicated MID Server for cloud discovery. The MID Server must have 16 Cores, 8 GB with 4 GB Java Virtual Machine \(JVM\) memory allocation. For information on verifying MID Server specifications, see KB article [KB2156327](https://support.servicenow.com/kb?id=kb_article_view&sysparm_article=KB2156327).
    -   Deploy and connect the dedicated MID Server with internet access.
    -   For more information on the MID Server configurations, see [Install and configure MID Servers to access cloud environments](../../it-operations-management/task/mid-server-configuration-cloud.md).
-   **Verify Google Cloud BigQuery and Google Cloud Bigtable requirements**

    To discover Google Cloud BigQuery and Google Cloud Bigtable, navigate to **All** &gt; **Discovery** &gt; **MID Server** &gt; **Properties** and ensure that the **sn\_itom\_pattern.google\_dbservice\_table\_collection** property is set to **True**.

-   **Verify user role settings**

    Set the user permission for the Google Cloud Platform member to **Viewer**:

    1.  In the Google Cloud Platform console, navigate to **IAM**.
    2.  Select the relevant member from the list and click the **Edit** icon.
    3.  In the Edit permissions window, select `Viewer` from the **Role** list.
    4.  Click **Save**.
-   **Configure Google API Credentials**

    For more information, see [Configure the Google API credentials for Cloud Discovery](../../discovery/task/itom-create-google-api-credentials.md).

-   **Create a Google Cloud Platform service account**

    For more information, see [Create GCP service accounts](../../it-operations-management/task/create-gcp-service-accounts.md).

-   **Enable collecting cloud logging events**

    The Google Cloud Platform patterns can collect cloud logging events generated by the native Google Cloud APIs. [Configure the Google Cloud Logging service to auto-update the CMDB](../../it-operations-management/task/gcp-stackdriver-service.md).

-   **Activate the cloud-related CI relationships**

    To include discovered components into service instances, enable CI relationships used in tag-based discovery by Service Mapping. These CI relationships are available from the 1.0.68 release on the ServiceNow Store. For operational steps, see [Tag-based discovery configuration](../concept/tag_discovery_configuration.md).

-   **Verify that a Discovery schedule is configured**

    For more information, see [Create a GCP Discovery schedule in Discovery Admin Workspace](../../discovery/task/create-gcp-schedule-DAW.md).

-   **\(Optional\) Populate Service Account and Logical Datacenter fields in cloud CIs**

    Starting with Discovery and Service Mapping Patterns version 1.30.2, you can improve query performance by populating Service Account and Logical Datacenter fields directly in cloud CIs. For more information, see [Improved query performance with direct field population in CI tables](../concept/query-service-account-ldc-fields.md).


## Verify the REST API Permissions

Download the [Cloud Discovery patterns spreadsheet](https://downloads.docs.servicenow.com/resource/enus/api/servicenow-discovery-patterns-api-details.xlsx) so you can grant user permissions required for running the Discovery patterns. In addition to permissions, the spreadsheet also includes useful information such as pattern names, types, CI Classes, and links to vendor documentation. New patterns are available quarterly, so check periodically to be sure you have the latest version of the spreadsheet.

## Data collected by Service Mapping during tag-based discovery

Service Mapping uses tag-based discovery to create service instance maps including the Cloud components. The Service Mapping application comes with the following preconfigured CI relationships used for tag-based discovery. These CI relationships are available from the 1.0.68 release on the ServiceNow Store.

|CI|Relationship|CI|
|---|------------|---|
|Configuration Item \[cmdb\_ci\]|Hosted on::Hosts|Logical Datacenter \[cmdb\_ci\_logical\_datacenter\]|
|Logical Datacenter \[cmdb\_ci\_logical\_datacenter\]|Hosted on::Hosts|Cloud Service Account \[cmdb\_ci\_cloud\_service\_account\]|

## Useful information

-   [GCP discovery solutions comparison](../../it-operations-management/reference/gcp-discovery-methods.md)
-   [Set up Google Cloud Platform service accounts](../../it-operations-management/concept/set-up-gcp-service-accounts.md)
-   [Google Cloud Platform \(GCP\) Cloud discovery using Patterns](gcp-cloud-discovery-patterns.md)

