---
title: Receive certificate notifications via email
description: The certificate owner and certificate administrator receive email notifications when any new manual certificate renewal task is created by the Certificate Inventory and Management application. The certificate administrator also receives a daily digest of all manual renewal tasks generated by the system over the last 24 hours.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Discovery
classification: discovery
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 1
breadcrumb: [Certificate integrations and notifications, Configuring Certificate Inventory and Management, Certificate Inventory and Management, ITOM Visibility, IT Operations Management]
---

# Receive certificate notifications via email

The certificate owner and certificate administrator receive email notifications when any new manual certificate renewal task is created by the Certificate Inventory and Management application. The certificate administrator also receives a daily digest of all manual renewal tasks generated by the system over the last 24 hours.

## Before you begin

Role required: Certificate administrator \(glide.discovery.certs.cert\_admin\_user\_id\) or PKI Admin.

## About this task

When a new manual certificate task is generated, the certificate owner and the certificate administrator receive an email notification. The certificate administrator also receives a daily digest of all email notifications generated for manual renewal tasks that day.

**Note:** If there’s no certificate owner mentioned for a certificate, the certificate administrator receives the notification.

## Procedure

1.  Configure the Certificate administrator to the desired email address.

    1.  Navigate to **Organization** &gt; **Users**.

    2.  Select **Certificate Adminstrator.**

    3.  Enter the email address into the **Email** text field.

    4.  Select **Update**.

2.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **System Properties** &gt; **Email properties**.

3.  Select Yes in the check box **Email sending enabled** in the **Outbound Email Configuration** form.

4.  Select **Save**.


## Result

The certificate administrator receives a daily digest of email notifications. The certificate admin and certificate owner receive email notifications for certificate renewal tasks generated by the system.

**Parent Topic:**[Certificate integrations and notifications](../concept/cert-inventory-mgmt-workflow.md)

