---
title: Perform a test data load for the air gap solution for Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds
description: After you configure the air gap solution for the Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds, test whether the SolarWinds endpoint is accessible from the high-secure server.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Service Graph Connectors
classification: service-graph-connectors
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 1
breadcrumb: [Configuring air gap connections, SolarWinds, Service Graph Connectors, Integrating third-party data into CMDB, Configuration Management, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Perform a test data load for the air gap solution for Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds

After you configure the air gap solution for the Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds, test whether the SolarWinds endpoint is accessible from the high-secure server.

## Before you begin

Role required: admin

## Procedure

1.  Navigate to the SolarWinds directory in your high-secure server.

2.  Run the `.\GetSolarWindsData.ps1 -configFilePath *CONFIG\_PATH*` script, where *CONFIG\_PATH* is the location of the JSON configuration file that is generated by the setup script.

    The script accesses the SolarWinds Hardware API, and creates a sample file in the Hardware directory and a log file in the Logs directory.

    -   If the test data load is successful, the log file contains the `Test Load status SUCCESS!` message.
    -   If the test data load fails, the log file contains the `Error occurred while processing hardware StatusCode 403` message.

        If the test data load fails, verify the SolarWinds user credentials and ensure that the user has the required permissions to pull the data from SolarWinds. If the credentials need to be updated, you must run the `SgSolarWindsHighSecureSetup.ps1` PowerShell script again. See [Configure air gap solution for Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds in a high-secure server](sgc-cmdb-solarwinds-airgap-high-secure.md).


**Related topics**  


[Perform a full data load for the air gap solution for Service Graph Connector for SolarWinds](sgc-cmdb-solarwinds-airgap-data-load.md)

