---
title: Management view in CMDB Workspace
description: The Management view provides CMDB Admins with quick access to key management tools and deep insights into CMDB health and activities. The view provides details such as duplicate CIs and recent activities in the CMDB.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\)
classification: configuration-management-database-cmdb
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 10
breadcrumb: [Explore, CMDB Workspace, Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\), Configuration Management, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Management view in CMDB Workspace

The Management view provides CMDB Admins with quick access to key management tools and deep insights into CMDB health and activities. The view provides details such as duplicate CIs and recent activities in the CMDB.

## Access

Role requirement: sn\_cmdb\_admin \(CMDB Admin\)

To access the Management view, navigate to **Workspaces** &gt; **CMDB Workspace** and then select **Management** in the CMDB Workspace menu bar.

## CMDB Data Manager

The following cards show details about CIs and policies associated with [CMDB Data Manager](cmdb-data-management.md):

-   **Rejected CIs**

    CIs set as rejected during a review of [attestation tasks](../task/review-data-manager-attes-task.md).

-   **Excluded CIs**

    [CIs set as excluded](../task/data-mgr-manage-ci-exclusion-wrkspc.md) from CMDB Data Manager policies.

-   **Draft policies**

    Draft [Data Manager policies](../task/data-manager-create-policy-wrkspc.md) that were created but not published.


## CI Correctness

Cards in this section show health state for the sub metrics of the [CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealth.md) correctness KPI. Counts are based on testing CIs against pre-defined data integrity rules such as:

-   [Identification rules](c_IdentificationRules.md) \(to detect duplicate CIs\)
-   [Orphan CI rules](../task/t_CreateCMDBHealthOrphanRule.md)
-   [Staleness CI rules](../task/t_CreateCMDBHealthStaleRule.md)

You can set the time interval used in calculations for these counts.

For more information about the correctness KPI, and the duplicate, orphan, and stale sub metrics, see [CMDB Health KPIs and metrics](../reference/r_CMDBHealthMetrics.md).

## Recent activity trends

The following cards show recent activities in the CMDB:

-   **Recent CI Activity**

    A 7-day chart showing metrics and trend line related to CIs such as the number of new CIs and updated CIs.

-   **Recent Application Service Activity**

    A 7-day chart showing metrics and trend line related to [Application Services](application-services.md) such as the total number of Application Services, new and updated Application Services, and the number of Application Services with outages.


## Management tools

Provides links that you can use to access CMDB dashboards, tools, and list views. The links are grouped by categories as described below.

**Note:** Some links are conditionally available based on installation of applications, active plugins, and your assigned role. For a link that doesn't appear, make sure that all the requirements for the link are met.

Manage:

-   [CI Class Manager](../reference/ci-class-manager-landing-page.md): Centrally view, create, or edit class definitions and class settings for Identification and Reconciliation \(IRE\) and for CMDB Health.

    Additional role requirement: sn\_cmdb\_editor, personalize\_dictionary, or itil.

-   [Data Manager](cmdb-data-management.md): Centrally create, edit, review, publish, and track Data Manager policies and the tasks generated by the policies.
-   [De-duplication Template Library](../task/workspc-dedup-create-template.md): Create and manage de-duplication templates and libraries to process de-duplication tasks in bulk.
-   [De-duplication Dashboard](dedup-ci-exp-cmdb-workspace.md): Show counts and insights for duplicate CIs in the CMDB, and run and track de-duplication templates to process de-duplication tasks in bulk.
-   [CMDB Groups](cmdb-groups.md#): Show a list view of current CMDB groups where you can create new CMDB groups, and manage the existing CMDB groups. A CMDB group is a collection of CIs to which you can apply CI actions collectively to all the CIs in the group. For example, CMDB Health can monitor CIs in a Health-type CMDB group, and report the aggregated health for the group as a whole.
-   [Dynamic CI Groups](../../service-mapping/task/create-it-services.md): Show a list view of current dynamic CI groups where you can create new dynamic CI groups, and manage the existing ones. Dynamic CI Groups act as application services that are populated with members of the CMDB group that is associated with the dynamic CI group. For more information about dynamic CI groups, see [Service instances \(Application services\)](application-services.md).

Optimize:

-   [CMDB success advisor](../../cmdb-success-advisor/reference/cmdb-sa.md): Improve CMDB data quality to support targeted business outcomes across Data Foundations and individual applications including Hardware Asset Management \(HAM\).

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Configure CMDB success advisor](../../cmdb-success-advisor/concept/cmdb-sa-configuring.md)
    -   Roles: sn\_cmdb\_admin
-   [CMDB Health](c_MonitorCMDBHealth.md): View the CMDB Health dashboards and configure the CMDB health KPIs and metrics that CIs are evaluated by in CMDB Health dashboards.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up and configure CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealthSetupandConfig.md)
    -   Roles: asset, sn\_cmdb\_editor, or itil
-   [CMDB Data Foundations Dashboard](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md): View the CMDB Data Foundations dashboard where you can explore potential risks in the CMDB implementation, and verify that important data is valid and properly configured.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up CSDM and CMDB Data Foundations Dashboards](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md)
    -   Roles: asset, sn\_cmdb\_admin, sn\_cmdb\_admin, itil\_admin, or admin
    -   Plugin: com.snc.cmdb.getwell
-   [CSDM Data Foundations Dashboard](../../csdm-implementation/concept/csdm-data-foundations-dashboard.md): View the CSDM Data Foundations dashboard where you can explore key CSDM metrics on a single page to assist you in getting the full benefit from your implementation.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up CSDM and CMDB Data Foundations Dashboards](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md)
    -   Roles: app\_service\_admin, app\_service\_user, asset, cmdb\_read, sn\_cmdb\_admin, portfolio\_admin, service\_viewer, technology\_service\_owner, or itil\_admin.
    -   Plugin: com.snc.cmdb.getwell
-   [De-Duplication Tasks](../task/reconcile-dup-task.md): Process a de-duplication task by using the Duplicate CI Remediator wizard which guides you through the duplicate CI reconciliation process.

    Additional role requirement: sn\_cmdb\_editor or itil.

-   [CMDB Remediation Rules](../task/t_CreateCMDBRemediationRule.md): Rules associated with a [CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealth.md) task that was created for a failed CMDB Health test. A CMDB remediation rule runs a remediation workflow to remediate an issue reported by CMDB Health.

Visualize:

-   [Dependency Views](../../business-service-management-map-ng/concept/c_BusinesssServiceManagementMaps.md): Provides a graphic infrastructure view for a CI and any applications or business services that it is part of and that it supports.

    Additional role requirement: dependency\_views.

-   [Query Builder](querying-cmdb.md): Easily build complex infrastructure and service queries, that span multiple CMDB classes, non-CMDB tables, and that can involve many CIs that are connected by different relationships.

    Additional role requirement: cmdb\_query\_builder\_read.


Create: [New Technical Service](../../csdm-implementation/concept/csdm-landing-page.md)

Additional role requirement: service\_admin.

**Parent Topic:**[Exploring CMDB Workspace](exploring-cmdb-workspace.md)

