---
title: Using identification simulation
description: Identification simulation is a central location for automatically constructing a payload that is guaranteed to be complete and valid. You can then simulate the processing of the payload by the Identification and Reconciliation Engine \(IRE\) and examine the results before actually submitting it for execution by IRE.Use identification simulation to automatically construct an input payload for a specified class. The constructed payload is complete with any required dependent CIs, correctly structured, and syntactically valid for processing by the identification and reconciliation engine \(IRE\).Use identification simulation to simulate the identification and reconciliation engine \(IRE\) process of CI identification for an input payload. Provide a valid payload, which was constructed using identification simulation or that was created manually.Identification simulation logs each step of a simulated payload processing. You can then examine these run logs to determine if a payload was processed as expected, and if identification rules are effective. You can adjust the level of logging so it is helpful, and so that the amount of messages is not excessive or insufficient.Identification simulation provides run logs which are generated by Identification and Reconciliation Engine \(IRE\). You can access these run logs for payload runs, to examine results and for debugging purposes. IRE payload output logs appear in a user friendly format on a central page.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\)
classification: configuration-management-database-cmdb
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 6
breadcrumb: [CMDB Identification and Reconciliation \(IRE\), Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\), Configuration Management, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Using identification simulation

Identification simulation is a central location for automatically constructing a payload that is guaranteed to be complete and valid. You can then simulate the processing of the payload by the Identification and Reconciliation Engine \(IRE\) and examine the results before actually submitting it for execution by IRE.

Use identification simulation to construct an input payload, and simulate processing of the payload by IRE. You can then examine the results, adjust identification rules if needed, and re-run the simulation of the updated payload.

Use the identification simulation to:

-   Automatically construct input payload that is based on existing identification rules, hosting and containment rules.
-   Simulate execution of a payload \(automatically constructed by identification simulation, or manually created\).
-   Browse payload output and execution log messages for a simulated run.

**Note:**

-   Identification simulation does not commit any updates to the CMDB.
-   Identification simulation supports simulation of processing payloads that are provided and which contain non-CMDB tables, but doesn't support the generation of such payloads.

**Parent Topic:**[CMDB Identification and Reconciliation \(IRE\)](c_CMDBIdentifyandReconcile.md)

## Automatically generate payload

Use identification simulation to automatically construct an input payload for a specified class. The constructed payload is complete with any required dependent CIs, correctly structured, and syntactically valid for processing by the identification and reconciliation engine \(IRE\).

### Before you begin

Role required: sn\_cmdb\_admin or admin

### About this task

The payload that is constructed during identification simulation is for the specified class. For a dependent CI class, you will be prompted for information about all dependencies. After you provide the required details, identification simulation constructs the payload based on your input.

**Note:** Automatically generating payloads that contain non-CMDB tables, isn't supported.

### Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Configuration** &gt; **Identification/Reconciliation**, and click **Identification Simulation**.

2.  In the **Start with CI Class** box click **Start**.

3.  On the **Payload Information** form, in the **Data source** field, select the data source that is associated with this class update.

    For the ServiceNow Discovery data source, select `ServiceNow`.

4.  Select the **Class** in the payload.

    1.  In the **Criterion Attributes** area select the CI identifier attributes and then specify the values that uniquely identify a CI.

    2.  In the **Additional Attributes** area specify attributes and values that matching CIs will be updated with.

5.  For dependent CIs associated with dependent identification rules, fill out the **Criterion Attributes** and **Additional Attributes** sections in all **Container level** sections that display.

6.  Click **Generate Script**.

7.  If any errors indicate that there are missing fields, fill in the missing fields and then click **Generate Script** again.


### What to do next

-   Click **Run Simulation** to simulate processing of the payload by IRE.
-   Examine the results of the simulation, fine-tune the payload as needed, and combine with other payloads for other classes as desired. After finalizing the payload, use the [createOrUpdateCI\(\)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/api-reference/server-api-reference/c_IdentEngineScriptAPI.md) API to execute the payload by IRE which will result in actual updates to the CMDB.
-   Click **Copy Script** to copy the JSON script into the clipboard. You can then paste that script into a third party software or to another screen of the identification simulation.

## Simulate payload processing using identification simulation

Use identification simulation to simulate the identification and reconciliation engine \(IRE\) process of CI identification for an input payload. Provide a valid payload, which was constructed using identification simulation or that was created manually.

### Before you begin

Role required: admin

### Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Configuration** &gt; **Identification/Reconciliation**, and click **Identification Simulation**.

2.  To run a simulation of an existing payload:

    1.  Click **Start** in the **Start with Existing Payload** tile.

    2.  On the Insert JSON Payload page, select the **Data source** that is associated with this class update.

    3.  Select **Use Enhanced Identification** to apply the [identifyCIEnhanced](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/api-reference/server-api-reference/c_IdentEngineScriptAPI.md) API for enhanced CI identification, instead of using the identifyCI API.

    4.  Paste the JSON payload into the empty canvas.

3.  To construct a new payload click **Start** in the **Start with CI Class** tile.

    See [Automatically generate payload](identification-simulation.md#) for more information.

4.  Click **Run Simulation** to simulate processing of the payload by IRE.


### What to do next

1.  Examine the results of the simulation in the results pane, and fine-tune the payload as needed:
    1.  Click **Run \#1** to display the **Context ID** and the **Run ID** of the simulated run.
    2.  Click the drop down arrow next to **Run \#1** to display additional details.
        -   **Input**: Displays the payload for the simulation.
        -   **Logs**: Displays all the logged messages that IRE generated while simulating processing of the payload, according to the specified logging level.
        -   **Output**: Displays the output payload returned by IRE.
2.  After finalizing the payload, use the [createOrUpdateCI\(\)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ServiceNow/ServiceNowDocs/australia/markdown/api-reference/server-api-reference/c_IdentEngineScriptAPI.md) API to execute the payload by IRE which will result in actual updates to the CMDB.

## Set logging level for identification simulation

Identification simulation logs each step of a simulated payload processing. You can then examine these run logs to determine if a payload was processed as expected, and if identification rules are effective. You can adjust the level of logging so it is helpful, and so that the amount of messages is not excessive or insufficient.

### Before you begin

Role required: sn\_cmdb\_admin or admin

### Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Configuration** &gt; **Identification/Reconciliation**, and click **Identification Simulation**.

2.  Click the **Settings** icon.

3.  Select logging level for the identification and reconciliation engine \(IRE\) under **IE Log Level** and for the service cache under **Service Cache Log Level**.

    The logging levels are displayed in ascending order, from the minimum level to the maximum level of logging.

4.  Click on the **Settings** icon again to close the **Settings** dialog box.


## Examine run logs

Identification simulation provides run logs which are generated by Identification and Reconciliation Engine \(IRE\). You can access these run logs for payload runs, to examine results and for debugging purposes. IRE payload output logs appear in a user friendly format on a central page.

### Before you begin

Role required: sn\_cmdb\_admin or admin

### About this task

Also, internal applications that use IRE \(such as Discovery\) can call an internal API to provide a URL to viewing IRE run logs.

Logging is in the context of a specific run of the identification engine, and you can filter the log list by a specific data source and time range. Up to 1000 run logs that are up to 2 months old are listed, grouped by Context IDs, and run times. You can use the [glide.identification\_logs.max\_run\_ids](../reference/properties-id-reconciliation.md) property to modify the 1000 limit.

You can control the logging level by using the **glide.discovery.identification.log\_level** Discovery system property and setting the value to one of the following:

-   Info
-   Warn
-   Error
-   Debug
-   DebugVerbose
-   DebugObnoxious

**Note:** IRE performs an initial verification of a payload before processing identification rules. If IRE detects any duplicate CIs based on any class identifiers, the payload is rejected and processing stops.

### Procedure

1.  Navigate to **All** &gt; **Configuration** &gt; **Identification/Reconciliation** &gt; **Identification Logs**.

2.  Filter the runs list as follows:

    1.  **Source**: Select the data source for which to display run logs.

    2.  **Time Range**: Specify a time range for which to display run logs.

    The **Runs** list displays all runs for the specified data source, during the specified time range.

3.  In the **Runs** list, click a **Run \#** to display its **Context ID** and **Run ID**.

    A unique Context ID is associated with each specific payload that is run. Each run of that payload, is associated with a unique Run ID. A single Context ID for a payload that is run multiple times is associated with multiple Run IDs.

4.  Click the drop down arrow for a **Run \#** to display additional details.

    -   **Input**: Displays the payload for the run.
    -   **Logs**: Displays all the logged messages that the identification engine generated while running the payload, according to the specified logging level.
    -   **Output**: Displays the output payload returned by the identification engine.

