---
title: Governance view in Service Graph Workspace
description: Governance view in Service Graph Workspace provides administrators with important information, actions, and links to tools that are used to manage, monitor, and administer data ingestion and other CMDB functions.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\)
classification: configuration-management-database-cmdb
topic_type: concept
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 12
breadcrumb: [Explore, Service Graph Workspace, Configuration Management Database \(CMDB\), Configuration Management, Extend ServiceNow AI Platform capabilities]
---

# Governance view in Service Graph Workspace

Governance view in Service Graph Workspace provides administrators with important information, actions, and links to tools that are used to manage, monitor, and administer data ingestion and other CMDB functions.

The Governance view in Service Graph Workspace provides the data and tools described in this topic.

## Access

Navigate to **Workspaces** &gt; **Service Graph Workspace**, and then, in the navigation panel, select the Governance icon.

Role required: sn\_cmdb\_admin

## Important actions

Important actions of various categories that require your attention or action. There are several task categories such as:

-   Health tasks generated by [CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealth.md): In health-related cards, such as Duplicate CIs, Orphan CIs, stale CIs, and De-Duplication tasks, select **View CIs** or **View Tasks** to show the list of associated CIs or important tasks. In the CI list view page, you can select **CMDB Health Dashboard** to open the CMDB Health Dashboard. In de-duplication-related cards generated by [IRE](id-detect-dup-ci.md), you can access the De-duplication dashboard and de-duplication libraries, to process de-duplication tasks in bulk.
-   Data attestation and life cycle approval tasks generated by the [CMDB Data Manager](cmdb-data-management.md): In data attestation-related cards, such as Reassignment Requests and Unassigned Overdue cards, select **View Tasks** to drill down to the associated important tasks.

Important actions are stored in the CMDB WS Imp Action Card Config \[sn\_cmdb\_ws\_imp\_action\_card\_config\] table that is accessible for editing only to users with the sn\_cmdb\_admin role. Authorized users can modify attributes of an important action such as **Active** and **Filter conditions**, but can't modify the **Type**, **Persona**, and **Table** attributes.

-   Important action cards show per the logged in user role, as specified in the CMDB WS Imp Action Card Config \[sn\_cmdb\_ws\_imp\_action\_card\_config\] table.
-   A card appears only if there is at least one record that meets the card's filter condition.
-   If you drill down a Health-related card and modify an associated CI, any resulting impact to health KPIs might appear only after the next cycle of the [CMDB Health Dashboard jobs](../task/t_EnableCMDBHealthDashboardJob.md).

For information about managing the cards in the Important actions tile, see [Modify important actions on the Governance view of Service Graph Workspace](../task/sg-workspace-edit-imp-action.md).

## What's new

Counts of newly created CIs within a recent time interval. The New CIs total counts all CI types including applications, hardware, and Service instances, which also appear in separate cards in the tile. By default, historical data is aggregated for the **Last 24 hours**, which you can set to a different time interval such as **Last 7 days**.

Select a card to drill down to a Performance Analytics KPI Details pane that shows the trend for the respective item.

Counts in the What's new cards are based on the following tables:

|Count|Table|
|-----|-----|
|New CIs|Configuration Item \[cmdb\_ci\]|
|New application|Application \[cmdb\_ci\_appl\]|
|New hardware|Hardware \[cmdb\_ci\_hardware\]|
|New Service instances|Service Instance \[cmdb\_ci\_service\_auto\]|

## Recent activity trends

The following cards show recent activities in the CMDB:

-   **Recent CI activity**

    A 7-day chart showing metrics and trend line related to CIs such as the number of new CIs and updated CIs.

-   **Recent service instance activity**

    A 7-day chart showing metrics and trend line related to [Service instances \(Application services\)](application-services.md) such as the total number of Service instances, new and updated Service instances, and the number of Service instances with outages.


## CMDB Health

Health metrics for CIs and relationships. Select the percentage numbers to navigate to the CMDB Health and CMDB Relationship Health dashboards. KPIs health scores calculated by CMDB Health for CIs. Select a percentage number for a KPI to navigate to the KPIs tile on the CMDB Health Dashboard. For more information, see [CMDB Health KPIs and metrics](../reference/r_CMDBHealthMetrics.md).

If the CMDB Health Dashboard jobs aren't running, then there won't be any health reporting until those jobs run. Select **Go to CMDB Health Dashboard jobs** to configure CMDB Health and to activate those jobs.

Additional requirements CMDB Health asset, sn\_cmdb\_editor, or itil role.

## CMDB success advisor

Supports targeted business outcomes by improving CMDB data quality across Data Foundations and individual applications including Hardware Asset Management \(HAM\). For more information, see [CMDB success advisor](../../cmdb-success-advisor/reference/cmdb-sa.md).

## Management tools

Provides links that you can use to access CMDB dashboards, tools, and list views. The links are grouped by categories as described below.

**Note:** Some links are conditionally available based on installation of applications, active plugins, and your assigned role. For a link that doesn't appear, make sure that all the requirements for the link are met.

Manage:

-   [CI Class Manager](../reference/ci-class-manager-landing-page.md): Centrally view, create, or edit class definitions and class settings for Identification and Reconciliation \(IRE\) and for CMDB Health.

    Additional role requirement: sn\_cmdb\_editor, personalize\_dictionary, or itil.

-   [Data Manager](cmdb-data-management.md): Centrally create, edit, review, publish, and track Data Manager policies and the tasks generated by the policies.
-   [CMDB Groups](cmdb-groups.md#): Show a list view of current CMDB groups where you can create CMDB groups, and manage the existing CMDB groups. A CMDB group is a collection of CIs to which you can apply CI actions collectively to all the CIs in the group. For example, CMDB Health can monitor CIs in a Health-type CMDB group, and report the aggregated health for the group as a whole.
-   [Dynamic CI Groups](../../service-mapping/task/create-it-services.md): Show a list view of current dynamic CI groups where you can create dynamic CI groups, and manage the existing ones. Dynamic CI Groups act as application services \(Service instances\) that are populated with members of the CMDB group that is associated with the dynamic CI group. For more information about dynamic CI groups, see [Service instances \(Application services\)](application-services.md).
-   [De-duplication Template Library](../task/workspc-dedup-create-template.md): Create and manage de-duplication templates and libraries to process de-duplication tasks in bulk.
-   [De-duplication Dashboard](dedup-ci-exp-cmdb-workspace.md): Show counts and insights for duplicate CIs in the CMDB, and run and track de-duplication templates to process de-duplication tasks in bulk.
-   [CMDB Coverage Dashboard](../../cmdb-coverage/concept/cmdb-coverage.md): Show details of CMDB discovery completeness by correlating IP addresses from IPAM systems with discovered configuration items \(CIs\).

Optimize:

-   [CMDB Health](c_MonitorCMDBHealth.md): View the CMDB Health dashboards and configure the CMDB health KPIs and metrics that CIs are evaluated by in CMDB Health dashboards.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up and configure CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealthSetupandConfig.md)
    -   Roles: asset, sn\_cmdb\_editor, or itil
-   [CMDB Data Foundations Dashboard](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md): View the CMDB Data Foundations dashboard where you can explore potential risks in the CMDB implementation, and verify that important data is valid and properly configured.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up CSDM and CMDB Data Foundations Dashboards](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md)
    -   Roles: asset, sn\_cmdb\_admin, sn\_cmdb\_admin, itil\_admin, or admin
    -   Plugin: com.snc.cmdb.getwell
-   [CSDM Data Foundations Dashboard](../../csdm-implementation/concept/csdm-data-foundations-dashboard.md): View the CSDM Data Foundations dashboard where you can explore key CSDM metrics on a single page to assist you in getting the full benefit from your implementation.

    Additional requirements:

    -   [Set up CSDM and CMDB Data Foundations Dashboards](csdm-cmdb-foundations-dashboards.md)
    -   Roles: app\_service\_admin, app\_service\_user, asset, cmdb\_read, sn\_cmdb\_admin, portfolio\_admin, service\_viewer, technology\_service\_owner, or itil\_admin.
    -   Plugin: com.snc.cmdb.getwell
-   [De-Duplication Tasks](../task/reconcile-dup-task.md): Process a de-duplication task by using the Duplicate CI Remediator wizard which guides you through the duplicate CI reconciliation process.

    Additional role requirement: sn\_cmdb\_editor or itil.

-   [CMDB Remediation Rules](../task/t_CreateCMDBRemediationRule.md): Rules associated with a [CMDB Health](c_CMDBHealth.md) task that was created for a failed CMDB Health test. A CMDB remediation rule runs a remediation workflow to remediate an issue reported by CMDB Health.

Visualize:

-   [Dependency Views](../../business-service-management-map-ng/concept/c_BusinesssServiceManagementMaps.md): Provides a graphic infrastructure view for a CI and any applications or business services that it is part of and that it supports.

    Additional role requirement: dependency\_views.

-   [Query Builder](querying-cmdb.md): Easily build complex infrastructure and service queries, that span multiple CMDB classes, non-CMDB tables, and that can involve many CIs that are connected by different relationships.

    Additional role requirement: cmdb\_query\_builder\_read.

-   [Unified Map](cmdb-workspace-unified-map.md): A graphical hierarchical map of the CMDB and its CIs, and the connections between them. Unified Map combines some of the capabilities of Dependency Views and of Service Mapping into a single map experience in Service Graph Workspace.

Create:

-   [Create CI](../task/create-ci-manual-cmdb-workspace.md): Create a new CI while enforcing Identification and Reconciliation Engine \(IRE\) processes and other requirements that result in a valid and unique CI.
-   Create Service Instance: [Create an application service \(service instance\)](../../service-mapping/task/create-it-services.md).

Additional role requirement: service\_admin.

