---
title: Configure resolution notes generation
description: Configure the Resolution Notes skill to create concise summaries of case resolutions, helping agents to quickly understand resolution details and support future similar interactions using notes generated by Now Assist.
locale: en-US
release: australia
product: Now Assist for CSM
classification: now-assist-for-csm
topic_type: task
last_updated: "2026-03-12"
reading_time_minutes: 3
breadcrumb: [Activate Now Assist Skills, Configure, Now Assist for CSM, Customer Service Management]
---

# Configure resolution notes generation

Configure the Resolution Notes skill to create concise summaries of case resolutions, helping agents to quickly understand resolution details and support future similar interactions using notes generated by Now Assist.

Configure resolution notes generation 

## Before you begin

Role required: admin

Case resolution notes are generated from the information that you enter in the following fields:

-   Short Description
-   Description
-   Work Notes
-   Additional Comments

Any modifications to the names or labels of these fields can result in issues with notes generation.

**Note:** It is recommended to revert to the default field name and field label for the affected fields. To remove incompatible fields from summarization, ensure a copy of the skill has been created, as not all fields are removable/configurable.

## Procedure

1.  Navigate to **Admin &gt; Now Assist Admin &gt; Skills**.

2.  Select the **Customer** workflow, and **CSM** as the product.

3.  Activate Skill for the **Resolution Notes Generation** skill.

    Each skill has a guided setup with multiple steps. A check symbol next to each step indicates whether its setup is complete, partially complete, or incomplete. After configuring a step, select **Save and continue** to move forward, or **Back** to return to a previous step.

4.  Select **Choose Input** and review the tables and fields to create prompts that determines where data is pulled from.

    **Note:** You cannot modify the input data source.

<table id="id_xlz_fhc_4fc"><thead><tr><th>

Input

</th><th>

Description

</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>

Input table

</td><td>

Case \[sn\_customerservice\_case\]

</td></tr><tr><td>

Input fields

</td><td>

-   Description
-   Short description
-   Work notes
-   Additional comments
-   Email


</td></tr></tbody>
</table>5.  Select **Define Triggers** and switch the toggle to require user input before resolution notes are created.

6.  Select **Define Availability** to customize how and when the skill capability is active and accessible.

    -   Select **Skill is always available** so no restrictions are placed on when a skill is available.
    -   Select **Customize skill availability** to define conditions and use the condition builder to configure fields and values.
7.  Select **Define access** to determine who can access this skill.

    By selecting specific roles, you're controlling who can use it. The roles you choose will also be available in the next step **Select display**.

    Default and Custom Roles:

    -   If no changes are made, the default role sn\_customerservice\_agent or sn\_customerservice.consumer\_agent will automatically appear in **Define Access** and **Select Display**.
    -   If custom roles were added before the upgrade, they’ll be updated automatically by a script.
    -   If new roles are created after the upgrade, you must manually add them in both the **Define Access** and **Select Display**.

        **Note:** In the **Select Display** step, you can only choose roles that were added in the **Define Access** step. If you add a role in **Define Access**, you still must manually select it in **Select Display** to make it active.

8.  Select **Display** to determine where the resolution notes appear.

    -   Select In-product desktop to display Now Assist skills on forms and workspaces.
    -   Select Now Assist panel to display Now Assist skills in the Now Assist panel.
9.  After selecting **Review and Activate** to examine changes, select **Done** to close the Resolution Notes Generation settings.

10. Select **Activate** to turn on the skill for agents and complete the configuration.

    Skill is activated for agents and a success modal shows up with the option to **Return to CSM** and to **Go to Now Assist content menu**.

11. Select **Go to Now Assist context menu** to [configure](customize-now-assist-context-menu-for-skills.md) the activity response generation skill's Now Assist Context Menu in Now Assist Experience.


**Related topics**  


[Generate the resolution notes for a case by using Now Assist for Customer Service Management \(CSM\)](now-assist-csm-generate-resolution.md#)

